This folder demonstrates how to use the basic OpenRAVE tools and functions.

1. (10 points) Run the HW1 template, it should load the PR2 robot in an environment with several tables and a doorway:
Using your mouse to control the viewer, move all the tables to be on the PR2’s side of the room. Record their position and rotation (using the display in the GUI). Now edit the HW1 template to place the tables automatically at the poses you recorded. Include a screenshot of the scene in your hw1.pdf. Save the code as HW1_tables.py and include it in HW1.zip.


2. (20 points) Edit a clean copy of the HW1 template to load the Puma robot arm into the environment and place the Puma near the PR2 so that the two robots both have their bases on the floor but are not touching. Set joint values on the PR2 robot so that the PR2 touches the Puma with any part of its left gripper. You may determine the joint values to do this through experimentation. Confirm that the two robots are touching by printing out the result of a CheckCollision command between the two robots. Include a screenshot in your hw1.pdf. Save the code as HW1_puma.py and include it in HW1.zip.

3. (15 points) Edit a clean copy of the HW1 template to draw a set of red rectangles around the boundaries of every table in the environment. You may use a series of lines to draw the rectangles. Next edit the template to draw 35 blue points in a circle that encompases the environment shown in the scene. Make sure the points are large enough to be easily visible in a screenshot. (see /usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/openravepy/_openravepy_0_9/examples/tutorial_plotting.py for drawing examples). Include a screenshot showing the points and the rectangles in hw1.pdf. Save the code as HW1_drawing.py and include it in HW1.zip.
4. (25 points) Edit a clean copy of the HW1 template to place the PR2 facing the wall in the center of the environment so that the wall is close to the robot but not touching it. Confirm that the robot is not colliding with the wall by printing out the result of a call to the CheckCollision function. Set the 7 joints of the PR2’s right arm as active (all others should be inactive). Inside a “with env:” block, use the SetActiveDOFValues function to set a configuration for the arm so that it is pointing straight forward. You should not see anything change in the viewer. Call CheckCollision to confirm the robot is colliding with the wall in this new configuration and print out the result. Now use the SetDesired() function on the robot’s controller to command the robot to go to the new configuration. Use waitrobot() (which is defined inside the HW1 template) after SetDesired() to ensure the robot reaches the target configuration.
Be careful in deciding if waitrobot() should be inside or outside the “with env:” block. Explain why you placed waitrobot() inside/outside the “with env:”. What would happen if it were placed in the other location and why? Include your answers in your HW1.pdf. Take a screenshot of the robot in the new configuration in the viewer and include it in HW1.pdf. Save the code as HW1_collision.py and include it in HW1.zip.

